Hello and welcome and this lecture.
We aren't going to be adding in specialization to our sound.
So depending on our distance from sounds, they are going to be louder or quieter.
And also, it's going to be panning from our left and right speakers so that we can hear whether it's
coming from our left or right.
Let's dive in and see how all of that works.
So in the last lecture, we saw how to make our sounds more interesting.
But we did notice that they're a little bit flat now.
But when we're going around in the world, they aren't sounding like they're coming from any particular
location.
Now, why is that?
One reason is attenuation.
So this is the fact that a sound that is closer to you will sound louder than a sound that is further
away.
Another factor coming into play is called specialization.
And this takes advantage of the fact that you often have two different speakers, one on your left ear
while on your right.
If you got headphones or two speakers in front of you stereo, then what happens is depending on where
these sound sources are relative to where you're looking, if it one's over to the left, it'll play
more of that audio over in your left speaker.
Whereas if another sound sources, moreover to your right else, play more of that in your right speaker
and so on.
And this gives you an illusion that a sound is coming from a particular direction.
And that can be really helpful in a game where you want that extra auditory cue as to whether your enemy
is trying to sneak up on you, such as in a shooter game.
So it's really important to be able to have both of these effects go on to give us more of a sense of
space.
Now, the way that we are going to do this is go over to Accu and in our queue we can change these settings.
And there's two ways we can do this.
If we scroll down to a section called Attenuation.
You can see that there's a checkbox where we can hit override attenuation and then that unlocks a bunch
of settings here, right here in the queue.
And that will allow us to add our own attenuation settings for attenuation and specialization.
But another option here is to add some attenuation settings.
And these can be shared between multiple cues and so on and so forth.
Now, this is the more scalable way of doing it.
So we're going to create a new sound attenuation asset.
Now, the Prefect's for this is a treaty underscore and then I'm going to call this just default.
Says the default sound attenuation, as I'm going to put it in the SFX folder and hit save.
And then we can go and reveal it in the content browser with a little magnifying glass and open it up
to see that.
It's basically just that details pain again that we were seeing in the queue.
Except this time these settings are going to be shared between all the cues that have it applied.
Now, the first two things that crop up here are attenuation distance and attenuation specialization.
So this shows us that right off the bat, these two are both enabled.
If we create ourselves a attenuation settings asset.
Now, some interesting set things to look at are the attenuation function.
You can see this is linear.
This is basically saying, how should I adjust the volume as an object gets further away, linear,
often a good start.
But you've got a more natural curve.
You've got a logarithmic curve, lots of other options.
Or even you can select custom.
And you can add in your own custom curve points.
Now, I would advocate for going with the defaults unless something sounds weird to you.
Then as the attenuation shape, which by default is a sphere, no real reason that you should need to
change this.
Some things might give off, sound more in one direction or another, and you might want to choose a
different option that then we have an inner radius.
Basically, everything this close to the sound source is going to get it at max volume.
Then we've got to fall off distance.
Basically, anything further than this distance is going to be zero volume.
And then finally, we've got the specialization section, which again is to do with that left right
panning.
And you can see that specialisation method can indeed be panning, which is quite simply saying if something's
over to my left, play more of it in my left speaker.
If it's over to the right, play more of it in the right speak.
There's also another option here called Binaural, and that does some more complicated calculations,
basically factoring into account the shape of your air, changing frequencies and stuff that should,
in theory, give you more of a sense of up and down as well as left and right.
But it does require you to be wearing headphones.
It requires a plug in to be enabled.
So I don't advocate using that if panning is enough for you, because panning also works on speakers.
And then the final setting of interest is probably the stereo spread down here, which just tells you
how far apart things are going to sound.
So if things don't sound far apart enough for you, then you can go ahead and make this larger.
If they sound too spaced out, then we need to go ahead, make it smaller.
But generally Amam indicating leaving these settings as they are by default.
One more thing is that if you want to go ahead and test this out, we need to open up our BP rifle and
set at damage down to zero so that we aren't easily getting killed.
And then we can go ahead and play.
And we know this is a little difficult to pick out one sound over another.
So if we go over to one of the Qs and hit either the solo button, which just plays that one Q So you
can hear all we're hearing is the rifle shot right now or we can hit mute, which turns off the rifle
shot so that all we can hear is the impact.
Kiran, of course, you can do this the other way round by going into the impact queue and soloing the
impact queue or muting the impact queue.
Now, this obviously doesn't make as much sense when all you've got is two different sounds.
But if you had three, for example, then solo would make a lot more sense and mute would make more
sense if we just wanted to take the impact cue out of the equation.
So it's time for a bit of challenge for you to specialize the impact sound as well as the rifle shootings
sound.
So you're going to use solar and mute to test and try and set it up with the attenuation asset that
we've just create, supports a video and have a go.
Hopefully this was a bit of an easy one for you.
We're going to go over to the impact queue, scroll down in the details, pain to the attenuation section
and select an new sound attenuation settings.
Then we're going to go over to the rifle and hit play.
Hopefully in that little play through, you are convinced that it was a specialized you can also play
around with the mute buttons and solo buttons.
So just hear one of the sound effects and just the note in my video recording, you will probably only
be hearing mono.
So you won't be able to hear the specialization, therefore, that you'll have to try it out in your
own game.
So that pretty much wraps it up for sound.
We now have randomise sound that is specialized and present in our world.
In the next batch, we're going to move on to working with a heads up display and health bars.
See their.